as JBS Haldane said the world Shall
Perish not for a lack of wonders but for
a lack of wonder everything around you
is incredible if you're willing to look
at it that way everything around you can
be taken for granted if that's your
perspective but it really is about the
frame that you choose to put around
things I mean simply being alive is
already insane the odds are so stacked
against you not only just being a human
but being a human at this moment in time
this moment in time will breakthroughs
in technology are happening at an
unprecedented rate where breakthroughs
in medical science are happening at an
unprecedented rate where our ability to
connect with people to empathize with
people all the way around the globe all
of the changes that have happened in
technology and telecom and connectivity
health everything we're living in the
most miraculous time ever but you have
to look at it that way and as Joseph
Campbell said life is a wonderful
wonderful opera except that it hurts so
the question is do you see it is the
beautiful opera or do you just pay
attention to the pain and at the end of
the day you're going to get where you
focus on they're both true this is both
the most amazing time that's ever
happened ever in recorded history and
yet real things that are terrifying are
also happening but where you put your
energy where you put your attention
where you put your focus is going to
determine what you see and that is the
most fascinating and the most important
thing you have to understand about the
waving your mind works you get when you
focus on if you focus on the things that
are bad they will become real they will
become exaggerated they will begin to
Anopheles your thoughts you'll see them
everywhere it's called the reticular
activating system your mind is literally
designed to pay attention to the things
that you notice once you notice a
certain car you see it everywhere once
you know there's a certain dog you see
it everywhere once you hear a certain
aim for the first time suddenly realized
that that name has been all around you
this entire time but now that you're
focusing on it now that you're looking
for it it is everywhere so whatever you
look for it's going to be everywhere if
you look for the negative it will be
there if you look for the positive in
overwhelming and as Joseph Kanda said
people say what we're all thinking as a
meaningful life but I don't think that's
what we're really seeking I think what
we're seeking is the experience of truly
being alive and that's it that's the
juice figuring out that thing that makes
you come alive
it isn't keeping up with the Joneses it
isn't how much you're getting paid it
isn't anything other thanks for you
something very specific it'll be
different for everyone but for you find
that thing that makes you come alive
focus on think about it put your time
and attention there shift away from
seeing the pain in the Opera and instead
seeing the wonderment at all seeing the
glory that is just everything around you
the opportunities the fact that you're
alive once you can see that those basic
things that you take for granted that
you can breathe into the nose and out
through the mouth all of that stuff
once you start seeing how were a culet
it really is once you start seeing how
we're connected to each other once you
understand that the name of the game
isn't wealth it isn't
fame it isn't ambition or success
it's neuro chemistry it's feeling a
certain way it's finding fulfillment in
your life once you realize that you'll
understand this will the game of
attention and you entirely control what
you focus on so choose very wisely my
friends because your life will literally
become the summation of the things that
you look at
[Music]
you